well Hamas has welcomed the ruling by
the international court of justice but
in a statement it says it expected the
court to issue an order to stop the
genocide against our people in all of
Gaza not just in Rafa well joining us on
the phone is senior Hamas spokesman
Osama hden he joins us from Beirut now
first of all can you just give us your
initial reaction to the icj ruling how
significant do you find
it well first of all it's uh a very
welcom decision from the icj and we
believe it shows EXA clearly that the
icj considered what's happening Gaza is
a genocide and Israel is committing a
genocide because everyone knows that the
genocide
is identified clearly in the court the
second issue I believe this decision uh
brings the whole International Community
uh to carry on their own respons
abilities everyone was waiting for this
decision uh to understand whether it is
a genocide or not we believe as Hamas it
was a genocide from day number one but
at least now everyone in the
International Community has to
understand it's a genocide and they have
to work hard in order to make an end for
that and to stop Israel from going on
forward in this issue and I believe it's
a a great challenge for the
International Community mainly to the
United States because for all the last
around 8 months isra Israel was
supported totally by the the United
States on all the levels uh if you want
to talk about a political level they
were supported in the security Council
they were supported and by by by by
military a they they were supported
economically and even they were defended
by the US Administration that was what
was happening is is not a genocide now
everyone understands it's a genocide and
has to work hard in order to stop it
since the ruling was handed down by the
icj as it was handed down we saw the
Israeli military step up its air strikes
on raford do you think that there is any
chance at all that the Israeli
government is actually going to comply
with this
ruling what it's clear that the Israelis
will not accept the decision and they
didn't ever accepted any resolution in
the United Nation or the
icj uh this is a challenge whether
Israel is a country uh above the
international law or a
country have to accept the international
law everyone is talking about the
international law everyone is talking
about the Justice now there is a clear
issue uh and everyone is supposed to
answer about that how he cons considered
the Israeli decision I think if they
were treated like a smallo child they
will continue but if everyone said is
enough and there was an action against
Israel by cutting Israel dismantling
This Racist uh regime I think this will
stop the war against not only RAF it
will be stopped against the Palestinians
we are under the Israeli cation for the
last 75 years the massacres did not
start today the genocide did not start
today it started 1948 but at least this
is the first time there is a clear
evidence that the international
Community considering what's going on is
a genocide uh through the resolution of
the icg yeah part of the the ruling was
uh as well was uh to deal with the
opening of the rougher border crossing
how significant how important is that
getting Aid back into uh back into
Gaza well it's very important because in
the last two days there is a clear
signs uh in in the northern part of
Gazza
about a hunger situation we we we we are
facing a real situation in in northern
part of
B according to the Israeli Siege and
according to
the the closure of the the borders uh
mainly in so I believe this this this is
supposed to reopen all the closed uh uh
checkpoints and allow the the the the
the a to come inside Gaza and that will
make the Palestinian people survive we
need also medical support we need all
the the the essential issues from food
to medicine to medical support from uh
everywhere and I think this can open the
door for the Palestinian to the
Palestinian people in gazda to have this
support well there is obviously
increasing International pressure on
Israel uh to stop its offensive and
rougher in particular and allow more
Aiden there is also more pressure coming
on Hamas to release the
captives well our position was clear
from day number one we have declared
that you are ready uh to do our best to
send the non-militant
Israelis uh to to to their families we
have Ted that the early days as you
remember and everyone may maybe remember
that we've sent two Americans and N said
no and after internal pressure he
accepted that so we sent two old women
after that in November we have a ceas
far which was undermined by n himself
and we sent around 110 of those uh women
and children uh and and we we said that
we are ready at the time to carry on but
Netanyahu undermines that through the
last four months all the
negotiations NY insist to have uh the
Israelis only without sending any
Palestinian or release any Palestinians
from the Israeli jails we are talking
about dozen hundreds of thousands of
Palestinians we are talking about more
than 10,000 Palestinians in the jail
half of them they were arrested in the
last five months so uh we were clear in
the negotiations we have to insist on
five issues which must work together a
complete stre fire a withdrawal from all
the areas in Gaza uh the return of the
Palestinians to their houses with uh
providing the with needed Aid
reconstructing and a
fair brisar exchange deal and and and we
insist on that and the last uh paper
which which was introduced by the
mediators I mean the Karis and the
Egyptians and it was endorsed by the
Americans we've said yes that was on the
4th of May this month but the Israelis
rejected that so we are ready to go on
if they said yes this would happen today
so
they they have to to make their mind and
to decide you are not going back to the
to negotiations there was an initiative
and was accepted from Hamas and they
have to say now yes okay still clearly a
golf between uh the two sides that is a
senior Hamas spokesman Osama hamen
speaking to us from
Beirut make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer